well howdy there in another biggle it's
Bo again first let me start off by
saying if you are not particularly
interested in the specific topic
understand that the techniques I'm going
to talk about to use to engage the youth
and learning something can be used for
any topic not necessarily it doesn't
have to be this one now we got a
question via the podcast and the
question is basically how do you engage
the youth in learning survival skills
and where would I recommend going for
training okay if you have a boatload of
cash and you don't want to do it
yourself
outward-bound outward-bound is really
good and they teach it the way I think
it should be talked okay that's the
problem you're gonna find with most
really good instructors who teach it
well and teach it beyond beyond just
learning the practical skills there's a
whole other side to it the thing is
those instructors can make a ton of cash
taking corporate executives out and
doing that so you have to compete with
that price point to get them to do it I
know a couple of guys that make an
obscene living basically babysitting
executives walking up and down the
Appalachian Trail
so aside from those who's going to be
the best instructor you you will you
will you will do as good a job as them
and better than the bargain-basement
guys just trust me now for those who
don't think that this is something their
kids need to learn what are the side
effects of learning survival skills you
learn to critically think problem-solve
think on your feet improvisation
self-reliance
these are the side effects it's worth
doing it's worth them even if you think
that nothing bad will ever happen it's
worth doing okay so we're going to start
off with the don'ts and there's just one
there's just one that I see commonly
that people do
don't try to toughen up your kid don't
just don't that was a common thing in
the 80s and 90s you know you wanted to
toughen the kid up don't do that
teach them the skills make it fun if
they have to suffer they just have to
suffer and in a survival is it you don't
have to practice how to suffer if you're
in that situation it's going to happen
you don't have to toughen them up not
physically mentally happens along the
way you don't have to go out of your way
to make this hard on them so what's the
first thing you should do get a copy of
the US Army survival manual and read it
you can buy it at any local bookstore
it's in our Amazon store you just want
to download it you can get it for free
at archive.org I would suggest getting a
hard copy and keeping it just just in
case but you can get it and printed out
from archive.org okay so you'll want to
make it fun are you gonna do that he
can't even get them engaged
don't fight popular culture don't find
popular culture don't fight the things
they want to do yeah I've mentioned
mentioned before I use zombies as a
teaching tool for survival
the reason is aside from it being
popular and the skill sets being the
same if you can survive a zombie
apocalypse you can certainly survive a
hurricane the metaphor is they're people
who aren't trained that don't have a
good idea of what to do an emergency
what do they do they follow the mob they
just try to satisfy basic instincts they
don't really have a plan zombies I mean
it's a good metaphor it's there
but let's say that doesn't resonate with
whatever youth you're trying to impart
this to find something they're
interested in that does you know your
kids sit around and plays video games
all day don't yell at him to get off and
go outside will you plan fall out you
wanna learn how to do that for real play
with their interests rather than just
trying to hand them a new one just find
some way to relate it that's all you
have to do and then it makes it a little
bit interesting and then it's a little
less of a problem getting them involved
and then from there you've read the book
so come up with hip pocket classes
little activities that can be done at
the drop of a hat organize them ahead of
time little things that you can do to
teach them little bits and pieces of it
at a time so it's not a classroom
setting
it's them doing something with with you
a good example is you're out you're away
from your home right now where can you
find food water fire or shelter a knife
and a first-aid kit and then they have
to think of it that's important because
it helps them think on their feet
it increases situational awareness it
makes them get to know the area and
those are all positive things those are
all positive things there are little
chemistry sets stem sets where you
actually learn to build something you
know you can you build a battery or you
start a fire with a chemical reaction or
whatever those little things they're
cheap they're like five bucks get them
do that one use that to teach something
else along the way little hip pocket
as little activities that can be done in
downtime escape rooms are good for
helping develop that mindset of seeing
that things aren't always what they are
you can make it something else those can
get kind of pricey and going and
participating in those little rooms they
have paper and pencil ones that you can
pick up at big-box stores for like five
ten box
other than that wholesome activities you
know take them fishing camping next time
you're going to barbecue yeah we're
gonna barbecue but we're gonna do it
over an open flame not in a grill waited
over a campfire which they built the
fire they now learned how to do that how
you gonna cook an egg heat a flat rock
if you're wondering in that again that
alone what are you doing you're doing
something that doesn't happen in this
day and age anymore you're spending time
together as a family
so the best instructor is gonna be you
because you're gonna understand them
you're gonna be able to relate to them
on a much better level than some random
person those instructors that are that
have figured out that that's an
important part of it they're
ridiculously expensive and more
importantly this is something that's it
could be fun and could that quality time
that ever-elusive quality time that you
don't get to spend with your family
anymore there it is just make it fun and
for God's sakes do not try to toughen up
your kid they don't need to be tough
physically they need to be tough
mentally and they'll figure that out
along the way anyway it's just a thought
y'all have a good night